hi I'm crystal from snake racing and I'm
joined by Simon from tough dog Simon
what are we doing today
okay we're going to be hitting a
40-millimeter left to this current model
Hilux today and basically showing the
guys at home how to fit this kit
correctly there's a few little bits and
pieces involved in the kit so let's get
stuck into it first thing we're going to
do here before we turn a spanner is
actually going to record the
measurements of the vehicle while that
standard height may have noticed that I
was measuring from bottom of rim to
guard the reason why we do that it's a
lot more accurate because it's a
straight line
okay now the wheels off guys there's all
things to undo so we can get that strut
out and that's basically the sway bar D
saddle the link rod for the sway bar to
the actual arm here the upper ball joint
and the tire right in so look at those
undone now
okay what we've been doing here God's
undoing the upper ball joint just being
careful that when we do crack this nut
we're not going to undo it all the way
okay now that the sway bar is undone
from the D saddle and from the link rod
we have just actually practi upper ball
joint and we've also started to undo and
we've actually removed the actual tie
rod in here we're gonna go in now and
undo the lower bolt here and actually
get struck out of the vehicle
okay here we have the tough dog strut
ready to go into this Hilux all the hard
works been done by the guys a tough dog
or that I mean the actual top spring hat
is already been pre line for the bottom
Irene so this will s key goes straight
in nice and easy guys if you ever using
a screwdriver or a bar to come in and
leave it this coil up so you can get
that bottom bolt in just be super
difficult for the edge of this doesn't
impact with the chrome sharp cracking
that chrome plating will result in a
shock absorber that will work very
quickly okay so we're going to go in
reversal now and do all these are tired
in back up and the other parts back up
one of the things are going to make sure
you do tie this bolt up here when the
cars on the floor
okay guys before we measured the vehicle
we had 800 milliliters of droop and now
we've got eight hundred and forty ml
which means they've got 40 ml more
travel than what we had previously
alright guys we've finished the front
the spotting the vehicle around now
we're going to attack the rear of the
car we're going to take the original
springs back out of this vehicle and put
the tough dog 40ml lifted springs in
alright guys we've got the axial
supports down knees here and the reason
for that is without going to go in there
and undo these u-bolts once we undo the
u-bolts obviously the differential will
come down so we've got the stand here to
support that from happening
alright guys we've got the u-bolts out
of this Hilux now so we're going to
separate the loose spring from the
differential just be careful that when
you guys do that you don't actually
break the brake line here or the ABS
line
we're going to do here we're just going
to nip these nuts up I'm not going to
get them too tight just so we don't
seize the shackle and we'll do it up
tight when it hits the ground
hi guys well the suspensions all in
where I read off and roll the last thing
we're going to do before we drop it off
the hoist is take this nut all the way
to the very top and what this does is
just basically controls re-break voice
all right guys now that we've got the
car back on the ground what we're going
to do is uh do up the shackles nice and
tight now they're in that position and
we'll get in there and do the u-bolts up
as well
okay we're fit of the 40 mil lift to the
current model Hilux here very last thing
we do who would at the cargo is
retention the u-bolts they're nice and
tight now but in a thousand case time
they'll be partially loose again after
it all settles in so it's important we
get the car back retention the ear bolts
and do a general check out of everything
else that we've done today
Simon I can see finished installing the
kit the next thing we do is put a couple
of hundred K's on the car and go and get
a wheel alignment what else do you
suggest yeah no you definitely right
there with the the wheel aligning that
has to be done in a couple hundred KS we
also need to pay special attention to
the u-bolts and the recess of sketchy
components that we've installed with the
color do a final check on that and the
cars good to go
if you'd like to find out more about
installing a 40-millimeter lift get into
your Hilux visit us online at WWE comm a
you